# Capture and View Metric

There are many forms of metrics collected by Azure, some automatic and some with configuration.

Metric data is numerical time-series data about any given resource. For a VM, these are data such as CPU usage or memory usage. Metric data such as these are automatically collected by Azure and is stored up to ***90 days***.

Metric data is stored at the subscription level. Because of this, we can use Azure Monitor Service to view metrics and even view composite metric data using it (network data transfer for a group of VMs).

Typically, you can view visualisations of metric data in at least one of the three places:
1. Overview page for a resource
2. Monitoring tab for a resource.
3. Using Monitor Service.

#### Platform Metrics

Are collected from Azure resources which require no configuration and have no additional cost.

#### Resource Logs

Are logs generated by Resources. You have to opt into collecting this collecting these either in Log Analytics Workspace, Event Grid or Hub, or archive into a Storage Account.

There is typically a tab called *Diagnostic Settings* in a resouce where we can set which specific metric to capture. If it is going to a Storage Account, we can set the retention period as well (0 days means indefinitely).

Before they were stored as key value pairs in a large table. Now they are being broken down to resource-specific tables.

#### Activity Logs

These are logs about a change in the state of an Azure Resource. For a VM, this may be starting or stopping VM, changing Size, network configuration and so on. 

The activity log also associates who initiated the change, whether automatic or by a user. 

It is stored at the subscription level, so you can even view all Activity Logs by going to Subscription -> Activity Logs.

Activity Logs are collected automatically and is the form of json. 90 days retention.

There is also diagnostic settings for activity logs to configure capturing to other services for analysis or retention.